Was that a jeweler downtown or was it on, where was
he? This was in Bryan. In Bryan, in Bryan. How often
did you and your buddies go to Bryan when you were a
student? Oh, not too often, but some, yes. And how
did you get there? They had a trolley. Went by
trolley. Do you remember what it cost? I think it
cost a nickel. It didn't cost much because if it
cost more than a nickel, I don't think I'd have made
it. And it ran every hour or so? Yeah, it ran, yeah.
And what was there in downtown Bryan for an Aggie
that was interesting? Movies.
Movies and going to a restaurant. Getting
whatever you can buy. Do you remember seeing any
movies down there that made an impression on you?
Were there some special? Oh, I don't remember. I
don't remember. Let's see. Were there still some
silent movies? Oh, sure, because sound didn't
come in. The first sound came in in 1927. That's
what I... And there was silent movies up to that
time. And the first movie with sound, it was Al
Jolson. And then after that, of course, you had
sound. Do you remember seeing that? Did you see
that one? I saw that one, yes. What did you think of
it? Well, I thought it was great. You sit there, and
all of a sudden, you hear voices. from a movie. It
was really something. To me, it was a great, great
development. How many students had a radio then?
Oh, I think most of them. Really? Oh, yeah. Radio
was prevalent. And you listened to WTAW and what
other stations? I listened to whatever station
they went to. There was one station I used to listen
to, and that was What's his name? Godfrey?
Godfrey? Godfrey played the Hawaiian music all
the time. And at that time it was microwave. And he
was in Hawaii. Relay the music and it'll fade in and
fade out. Fade in and fade out. Wasn't clear. Your
freshman year, did you go home Thanksgiving? I
went home Christmas. Christmas. How did you get
home? Well, most of the time, I thought my way home.
Describe Aggie hitchhiking. What was it like?
Well, there'd be more than one trying to
hitchhike, and we separated about 200 yards.
Everybody had a chance. Did you wear a uniform? Oh,
absolutely, that's the only way that people will
stop. They knew Aggies. They knew Aggies with
uniforms on, you know. They were the same people
driving up and down the highways in the trucks and
mostly, and I've ridden many times in a truck that
was being delivered someplace and that they'll
take me halfway or the quarter way or to Houston and
then I'd go on the road and try to get all the way into
Bowman. Did you ever have any bad Aggie
hitchhiking experience? No, never did. This is
number 204 of the interviews. I have yet to hear a
single bad hitchhiking experience. Everybody
says, sometimes did the guy drive a little too fast
or maybe drink a little too much? I never had any
experience. Of course, I didn't make as many trips
as some of them made. Because I stayed here and I
worked. What did you tell your parents and your
friends that first Christmas about being an
Aggie? What did you tell them? I couldn't tell my
mother much. She wanted to know why my rear end was
so bloody and everything else. And that was the
whole talk the whole time I was there. She just felt
like I was in the wrong place. And she was the one who
really wanted me to go to college. And she just
would save a dollar here, 50 cents or whatever it
is, and try to send it to me whenever she possibly
could. She was a great mother. About how much did it
cost a full year then? Do you have any idea to go to
A&M?
I think that less than $200. And about how much did
you earn and how much did your family give you? Oh,
my family. My mother would give me maybe $4 or $5 a
month. That's just shit saved. We were poor. We
were very poor. And the grocery store was just
making enough to to keep us alive, you might say.
And there was no way that my family could have sent
me to college. No way. I can identify with some of
this because nobody in either of my parents'
families had ever finished high school before me.
My parents didn't. But they always said, you're
going to go to college. You're going to go to
college. My mother supported me too. My daddy, he
was a good man, but he was striving, working so hard
to keep the family together and everything. He
felt like that we ought to work in the store and help
them. Did your brothers and sisters go to college?
My older brother didn't. My other brothers did.
And I helped one of them get a degree out of Tulane.
He was a wonderful doctor. Oh, great. And he was the
first of the brothers to die. Did you ever think
about leaving A&M and going somewhere else? No, I
should say not. When I came to A&M and I got that $50 I
would have done anything for A&M. Anything,
anything. At Christmas, then, you go home and
you're coming back. Did the hazing slow down the
second semester for freshmen? Somewhat, because
if I remember, one of the freshmen had a hurt, his
spine was damaged. And I really led a contingent
because I did everything I possibly could to stop
that hazing. When you finished your freshman
year, what did you do that summer after your
freshman year? I went to Beaumont and I worked in
the oil refinery, hauling coke. They'd have this
coke and they liked to haul it and put it on
gondolas. I'd get out just black, and they'd pay
you so much an hour. I worked in the oil fields.
After the second boom, it spilt up. I'd carry
buckets. But fresh water buckets in each hand and
carry them to people on the rig on the derrick
floor. And they paid me 50 cents. 50 cents? 50 cents
a day. Oh, a day. For the afternoon. Oh, I thought
you were going to say an hour. No, no, they paid me 50
cents. Now, Beaumont was a boontown then, wasn't
it? Well, they had a boom town in 1901. Yes. When the
film town came in on the Superdome structure. But
on the flake, that was 1925. That's what I thought.
I was still in high school. So there was a second
boom. A second boom. And you came back then as a
sophomore. How much better was it to be an Aggie
sophomore than it was to be an Aggie freshman?
Well, a hell of a lot better. a lot better you you
just don't realize some of the things that the
hazing that took place there were dropouts there
was some that went home i couldn't take it but i took
it regardless of what it was because i wanted this i
wanted the education i was determined i was going
to be a geoscientist and i was going to do it Now did
you think that you were going to be a scholar, a
geoscience scholar, or that you were going to go
into the business world? No, I wanted to get my
degree. I got my bachelor's degree. Then I went
back and got my master's degree because Dr.
Lonsdale, who was head of the science department
and all, had made arrangements with the United
States Geological Survey to do some work in the
Winter Garden area, which was near
the valley. And so he asked me to be his assistant.
Oh, good. And so they paid me a few dollars to work
and write up the papers and things of that kind. And
I got my master's degree by working the geology out
of Scotia County. As a sophomore, did you have jobs
the same way as you had as a freshman? Oh, yes, I
worked the same way. I worked the same way I did
through my junior year, and then during my junior
year, the class elected me as editor of the
Longhorn. I always wondered why it was called a
Longhorn, and I recommended that it be changed to
the Aggieland, and it finally was. And the word
Longhorn was two words, wasn't it? No, no. Oh,
originally it was two. Longhorn. Originally it
was two words. I don't remember that. Well, back in
the 1890s. Where were the offices for the
Longhorn? In Milner. In Milner Hall? Milner. My
junior year, I was in Milner. I think I was in Milner
both years, junior and senior. Now, had you done
any... work like that before in high school? No,
no. It just came natural to me. My business manager
was Quack Porter. Quack Porter. Yeah, they called
him Quack. Where was he from? Do you remember?
I don't, but I thought about him the other day and I
said, I'm gonna get in touch with Quack. I could
find out. Terrell, Texas? I know where that is,
east of Dallas. I think it's Terrell. What was your
nickname? Mike. No other than Mike. It's Mike.
Michelle is my name. Yes, sir, I know. Were you Mike
in high school or were you Michelle in high school?
Both. Both? The teachers called me Michelle. And
the students, some called me Michelle. The girls
called me Michelle, but the boys called me Mike.
They didn't like the name Michelle. Back to the
Longhorn, about how many other students worked
with you on the Longhorn staff? Oh, I had, oh, maybe
25. and uh longhorn when when you were elected
editor and business manager you had to raise the
money and how did you raise it quack and i bought a
car for 75 dollars an old star the name of a star
didn't have a top oh dilapidated car and so we took
that we toured toured the state Raising money? We
may have raised money. We had to, otherwise we
couldn't get the book. The school didn't give us a
dime, not one dime. How much did you all raise? We
raised enough to publish it, and I think it was
pretty close to $10,000, if I'm not mistaken. Wow,
that's a lot of money. Our biggest contributor was
Zachary. H.B. Zachary?
The greatest contributor. There. That's his
picture, but it's on the John. That's Mr.
Zachary's picture. Yeah. We walked in and he said,
what are you going to do? I said, well, you know
about this, Mr. Zachary. You've been to A&M. You
know what the yearbook is. School doesn't give us a
dime. We've got to raise the money ourselves. And
we did everything. We went from one place to the
other, and we solicited, and we met people that we
would have never met before. And sometimes we were
hungry, and we didn't spend money to really eat. I
remember one time we were coming back from San
Antonio, we passed some watermelon
I said, quack, let's go in there and get the
watermelon. He said, oh, hell no, we may be shot. I
said, I'm hungry. They said the watermelon was
close to the road. I said, well, I'm going in there
and get the watermelon. He said, no, you better
watch out. So anyway, I jumped over the fence and
got a watermelon. We bursted it open, and that was
our meal for the day, I think. Who else was truly
helpful other than Mr. Zachary? Were there some
others? Oh yeah, we got,
I don't remember names, but Dallas, we had a lot of
help in Dallas. Amarillo,
Beaumont, Corpus Christi. And that area helped us
a lot, and the valley. Where did you get the idea for
that marvelous artwork that you put in that? Do you
know? I'm glad you brought it up because that's the
greatest piece of artwork that was ever in any
annual. Did you know that it won All-America
Prize? It was considered the best annual of any
annual for that year in the whole country.
I thought that looking into the future, and I got
this, Mr. Dr. Geiss. He was associated with the
architecture department. G-E-I-S-S? G-E-I-S.
S. I think that's the spelling. And I said, I said,
now look, Dr. Geiss, I want, this is the idea I have.
I said, someday they're going to be planes flying
all over the place. I said, we want to build
high-rise buildings, connect them. And I said, we
also want to build a landing place in the middle of
the ocean so that planes can leave the United
States, land, get gasoline, and move on. Have you
seen that book? Mm-hmm. Now, who did the art? He
did. Oh, Professor Geist did. Professor Geist, he
had a... He had two helpers, I can't remember their
name. Students. That's beautiful work. Oh, yes.
There'd be nothing like it. Nothing. Did he? Even
to this day, from 1930 to this day, no annual ever
came close. Now, did he get any pay for that, or did
he donate all of it? No, no, this was all volunteer.
The money that we got, we paid for expenses. We had
to have this, we had to have that, we had to have
typewriters. The school didn't give us anything.
Where was it printed? It was printed in Jefferson
City, Missouri. Really? Yes. Because, see, I was
chancellor of the University of Missouri after I
left here and came back four years ago. That's why
I'll have to check on the company. Jefferson City,
Missouri. My, my, my. Because the Aggieland today
is being printed by a company up in North Missouri.
Yeah. They're very, very big in that. It might have
been the same company. Oh, that's what I'm going to
check. Do you remember how many copies you all
printed? Enough for all the student body. So it
would have been 2,000 plus. Whatever it was. I
think my class was around 2,100. Who did the
photography? all of us so different people yes i
had a camera a quack had a camera and i designated
some of them to do go go get pictures here go get
pictures of the military go get pictures of the
athletic program things like that were there any
faculty advisors none none it's remarkable that
here was something so important for the
university at that time, the college. And there
was no help of any kind from the faculty or from the
officers of the institution. And I'm
trying to think
who was there.
Chairman of the Board of Regents. Wait a minute,
look at me.
I'm sure I don't know that one. Anyway, I went to
him. And I told him, I said, how in the world can this
college want a yearbook? They needed a yearbook,
and there's no help. I said, maybe next year you're
not going to get somebody as enterprising as Hal
Booney and Porter. Maybe they won't be able to go
get the money. What are you going to do? Now when did
y'all make that fundraising trip? Was it during
the summer? During the summer, between the junior
and senior years. You were elected while you were a
junior. Now had you worked on the yearbook as a
junior? No, I did a little photography
and then I'd go into the office and I
think the editor
of the one before that was Puryear. Was it Puryear
or do you know? Now did somebody recommend you? Or
did you just kind of say, hey, I'd like to do this? It
was a surprise to me. Oh, really? Oh, yes. Oh, yes.
The president of the class came to me and told me
that I was elected to be editor, and Quack Porter
was elected to be business manager. And I said,
gee, my nanny. I said, where are we going to get the
money? He told me, you get it. And because you had
not been on the high school paper. No. And you sure
didn't plan to be a journalist. No. I guess they
watched me work and they figured we needed
somebody who could work. When did, about what time
of the year did y'all turn in all of the copy? Every
day. Right, and when did you turn in the last? Oh, A
few weeks before. And it was ready for
distribution when? By the time you graduated? It
was ready for distribution, I think, two or three
weeks before graduation. Everybody got a copy.
You see, that was another thing that bothered me,
is that we raised all that money to put out the
yearbook, and there were no charge for it. We gave
it to
them. And I think today you pay for it, don't you?
Oh, yes, yes. Every student pays a fee. Yeah. The
biggest yearbook in the United States in size and
in number of copies today is the Aggieland. Well,
it should be. Well, I agree. But see, many other
campuses now, the yearbook is going away. Yeah. Do
you remember where they set up to make the
photographs of the individual students?
We had a place there.
I don't remember. I think it was one of the halls.
And in the first Longhorns, seniors wore tuxedos.
Y'all wore your uniforms, didn't you? Yes,
everybody wore uniforms. See, you've got to
remember that everybody, every student except
the casuals, were in uniform. Did you, by chance,
meet Buck Shewitz back in those years? Oh, yeah.
Please describe what... I loved Buck. He was a
great guy. He was a great person. See, he had been
the art editor of the yearbook in 21. And that one
is, next to yours, that one is the best art of any
yearbook here. When my co-author, Jim Clark, and I
wrote Spittletop, and we wore the dust jackets. So
I went to Buck and I told him we want a jacket for this
book and he delivered it. And if you ever get a copy
of Spittletop and you look at that dust jacket,
that's Shewitz. Make believe that I didn't know
Buck and I knew him well. Describe Buck Shewitz. I
knew him enough to know that he was a compassionate
man and full of artistic ideas. He loved this work.
Oh yes, oh yes. And he loved this school. Oh yes. His
drawings should be made a permanent
part of this university. Well, there are 24 of them
downstairs in the main lobby of the MSC all the time
right now. Yeah, I know they've been there, but
they ought to have something. Oh, yes. They ought
to have a room, something dedicated to him, and
they started just having them scattered out like
they are. Where did the original for that dust
jacket, do you have that?
When the book came out, We loaned it to this fellow,
T.E. Brown, I think that was his initials, of the
Brown Bookstore.
And he had all these books in the window, and he had
books drawing, showing the jackets.
And then when we wanted him to return it, he
wouldn't return it. He said somebody stole it.
He's a liar and so and so. If I ever saw anybody, he
just stole it. That's not fair. Back to the
yearbook. I don't know why I didn't do something
about it. I don't know why I didn't sue him or
something. When you finished that yearbook, did
you present a copy to President Walton? Was there a
special occasion? when the yearbook was
finished?
I
think I probably had it. I think I delivered it to
the first copy. I'm trying to think of the guy who
was the Board of Regents.
I think the first copy I delivered to one of the
regents by the name of Law.
I forget his first name. But he was very nice to me.
And he knew my family circumstances. And he gave me
my first degree. got out of line, gave it to me, did
the same thing for the second one. Oh, how good, how
good. How easy was it to sell ads to the businesses
here in Bryan and College? It wasn't easy.
Did y'all have a party for the, when you finished
it, did y'all celebrate in any way? Oh, Quack and I,
We decided that what we were going to do, pay
ourselves a little salary.
And I think we paid ourselves about $50 a month,
which helped a lot. During the years that you were
here, what services did the YMCA provide? What
happened at the YMCA? Well, they had the
confectionery for one thing, and then they had
services for the students, and they would give you
some help in every way that they possibly could.
But then they had a bowling thing in the basement
down below. Was the swimming pool still there?
Yes, I think it was, yeah. That would have been the
only swimming pool anywhere around, wouldn't it?
Yeah, it was there. Did you get acquainted with Mr.
Cashin?
That's a name that's a familiar name. Cashin, yes.
Cashin. He was the first director of the Y. Well,
then I must have known him, the name, when you
mentioned his name. Yes, yes. And see, Red Cashin,
that's his son. Yes, yes, yes. Did you go to any
religious events here while you were a student?
Did you go to church?
Well, occasionally I would. Where did you? I'd go
to the Episcopal Church. At South? We were raised
in the Eastern Orthodox Church. And that's where
my Sunday school teacher told me the earth was
5,000 years old. So they didn't have any Eastern
Orthodox Church in this area. So Episcopal
services and rites are the same as practically of
the others. Were there any Sunday night church
meetings? Not that I remember. Oh, they had
meetings, but I don't know. Was Religious
Emphasis Week held in that era? In the late 30s, I
know they had here on the campus one week in the
spring when they would have ministers from all
denominations come. They probably did, but I
didn't attend those. Describe the typical A&M
student when you were here. Where was he from? What
kind of income? What were his basic attitudes? The
average, he was a well-to-do student.
Country or city? Both.
Most of the students here were well-off. And what
were? There were a group of us that knew each
other's poverty. And we tried to mingle with each
other because we had the same problems. Problems
at home, problems raising money and everything
else. And there was this other group that were just
wealthy people. Did those well-to-do boys make
fun of you poor boys? No, I don't think that ever
took place. I've never heard of that. Did it matter
where your ancestors came from here at A&M? No, no.
What was it that pulled Aggies together? It was the
spirit that we realize exists today, the Aggie
spirit. And in that core, when you're in that core
and everybody in the college was in the core, That
was a fraternity of its own. That's one reason why I
fought like hell to keep the fraternities from
happening in this university.